[MUSIC]
Welcome back.
In this video, we're going to start
introducing Power BI desktop.
We're going to see how we can use it
to get transform and model our data.
We're then going to start building some
amazing interactive visualizations.
When you first open up Power BI desktop,
you'll be greeted with this friendly
yellow start screen, which allows you to
quickly get data or open recent reports.
But for now,
we're just going to close it up.
So just hit the cross top right hand
corner and welcome to Power BI desktop.
Unlike Excel, when you open up Power BI,
you just confronted
with this white canvas.
But that's because this tool is not
designed for data entry, it's designed for
creating reports, and
a white canvas is exactly what we need.
Before we can do that though,
we're going to need to get some data.
And Power BI offers us
a huge a range of options.
If you come to get data
button on the ribbon,
you'll see some more common data sources.
But at the bottom, select the more
button and prepare to be amazed
because not only can you get it
from just about any database, but
you can get it from online services,
Salesforce, you name it.
We're just going to get our data from
Excel though, so I'm going to click
Cancel, and then coming back to my ribbon,
I'm going to click Excel.
Can you navigate where you've downloaded
this week's files and you're looking for
week four data and
we're going to double-click.
And this screen probably
looks quite familiar.
It's our old friend Power Query.
And it's asking us which tables or
worksheets we want to get our data from,
while we want to get it from
the five tables at the top, so
just select everything from
customer down to products.
And then if you were peppy
to just load that data in,
you could click the load button.
But if you need to make some changes,
we're going to click
the transform data button.
This has opened up our query editor and
we now have the full
power of power query to merge,
append, or clean up our data.
We're going to keep it
really simple though,
we're just going to make a few
transformations to our staff table.
So can you select LKP staff.
And the first thing we're
going to do is fix that name.
It's quite common for
tables to have TBL, or DIM, or
fact in front of them, but
when they're brought into Power BI,
it's good practice to keep as
names as sensible as possible.
So, clicking into the name
box on the right hand side,
I'm just going to backspace to
remove the LKP and press Enter.
Another really good idea is to try and
keep your data model in
Power BI as lean as possible.
So don't pull in columns or
records you don't need.
There's a lot of employee information
that we do not need for our analysis, so
I'm going to remove them from the query.
They'll still be in
the original data source,
they just won't be pulled into Power BI.
We're going to start by clicking
on national ID number, and
then I'm going to scroll to
the right till I SickLeaveHours,
hold my shift key down, and
select the SickLeaveHours column, and
then just press Delete to remove
those columns from the query.
I also don't need all my staff,
this analysis,
I'm only interested in sales staff.
So I'm going to come to
my department column,
click the drop down, uncheck all,
and just select Sales.
So I'm filtering out
everything that's not sales.
They're my sales staff, and
that's my transformation complete.
Now I'm going to come to my home
ribbon and click close and apply, and
that's going to finish
the transformation and
load all the data into
my Power BI data model.
The data is now being loaded, but
we can't see it in the report view.
So to actually see the data, we're
going to come to the left hand side and
there's a small panel with three icons,
and
the second icon gives us
access to the data view.
Let's click on that now.
And you can see there's my customer table.
And on the right hand side are all
my other tables listed, and
if I wanted to see orders,
I can click on the orders table.
What I want to do next though,
is actually finish off the model.
I need to create the relationships
between these tables.
And just as we saw in Power Pivot,
this is really important in Power BI.
So the third icon on the left
hand side is our model icon.
And we going to click on
that to see our data model.
On the right hand side are two panels,
the fields panel,
which shows us which feels on each
table and the properties panel,
which we're going to
look at a little later.
But for now, let's tuck that
away to give us some more space.
And then we're going to click the minus
on our zoom slider a few times, just so
we can see all the tables.
So there are five tables, but notice a lot
of the relationships have been created for
us, which is absolutely brilliant.
And if I come and hover over the
relationship between customer and orders,
you can see it's related the customer ID,
so that's work beautifully.
Let's do what we did last week.
Let's organize our table, so
all our look up tables at the top and
our fact tables at the bottom.
So I'm going to move orders down and
Order_Items which these
are our fact tables.
And then I'm going to move products,
staff, and customer into the top row.
I'm leaving a little
space on the left there.
And we can now see that there
is one relationship missing.
We're missing the relationship
between staff and orders.
So we can't get any more
information about our sales person.
The reason for that is, that the fields
have different names on the two tables,
so on the staff table it's employee ID,
on the orders table we've
called it sales person ID.
So if you can be
consistent in your naming,
you will save yourself
a little bit of time.
But it's very easy to
create the relationship.
Let's put that in now.
I'm going to click on employee ID,
drag and drop onto Sales Person ID.
And that has created my relationship.
The data were working with is very much
the same data's we looked at last week.
But let's just take a moment to remind
ourselves what it looks like and
where it's being stored.
At the heart of our data
set is the orders table.
This is where we store each
order that has been placed.
So for example, order 43660 was placed on
the second off July and
was placed by customer 117.
To find out more about the customer,
we can go to the customer table and
we can see that that was Pedals Warehouse.
The sales person who took
the order was Linda Mitchell.
And we can see we've got that
relationship between employee ID and
sales person ID to get
that extra information.
The order actually
consisted of two products.
And the details of which
items were purchased within
order are stored on the order items table.
The two products purchased were a road for
50 and a road 650.
On the order_items table,
we have also the order quantity.
So how many of each product were
purchased and the unit price.
The line table then gives us the total
spent for each product for that order.
If we add up our line totals for
a particular order,
they will equal the subtotal
on the orders table.
So either sub total or
line total will give us our revenue.
So that's a quick recap on the data.
We're now ready to start
building our visualizations.
Back in Power BI,
come to the left hand panel, and
we're going to select our report icon
of the top to come back to our canvas.
The first visualization we'd like
to build is to see how much revenue
was produced by each state.
So we're going to start by coming
across to the right hand side and
you'll see we have three panels.
A filters panel, which we're
going to leave collapsed for now.
A visualizations panel which allows us to
select and customize our visualizations.
And the fields pane, which works very
much like the fields pain in pivot tables
in that it lets us choose which fields
we want to add to our visualization.
Now we need state.
So I'm going to come to customer and
click on the drop down to expand it.
And then I'm going to find state,
click, drag, and
actually drop it onto the bottom
left hand corner off my canvas.
Power BI has automatically detected that
that is geographical information and
has created a map for me.
How good is that?
To resize our visualization, we can use
the resize handles at the corners and
mid points, so I'm going to make
my map a little bit bigger.
But now I'd also like to
see a breakdown by revenue.
So that's just show me
where the states are,
but not given me any indication of
how much revenues being produced.
If I come to my fields list again and
expand order items,
there's our line total,
which will give us our revenue and
I could drag that and
drop it onto the visualization.
But one of the things we learned last
week was that it's always better to use
an explicit measure than
an implicit measure and
that is definitely true in Power BI.
So we're going to do it right.
Now if you, still a little
shaky about what a measure is,
I'll just remind you, it's basically
a metric, something like revenue,
which can be seen in different context.
So I could have revenue by country, or
revenue by year, or revenue by product.
In every case,
it's an aggregation of a particular
field within a particular context.
To create the measure, we can either
right click on order items or
we can come up to our ribbon and
just click new measure.
When we do, the formula bar opens up,
and now we can just type in our measure.
The first thing we put is what
we want to call the measure and
I want to call it Revenue.
We then type of space and an equals, and
that is slightly different to Power Pivot.
We don't put the colon, so
slightly more intuitive.
Then type another space, and now we need
to specify the calculation we want to do,
which in this case, is a sum.
So I'm going to type sum and
open my brackets.
This however is not an Excel sum.
The language we use for
doing our calculations and Power BI is and
what we're trying to add
up is our line total.
So I'm going to start
typing line total and
you see the auto complete is really good.
There it is, Order_Items LineTotal,
tab to select,
close your bracket and press enter.
If you have a look in your fields list,
a new measure called Revenue has
been added and it gets a little calculator
icon to tell us it's a measure.
As we could empower Pivot,
we can also change the formatting.
So with that still selected,
come up to your rhythm and
with this format,
we're going to change it to currency and
I want that with zero decimal places.
Our new measure's now being created and
we can use that in any or
all of our visualizations.
I'm going to come to revenue,
click, drag, and
I'm going to drop it into the size
field in my visualizations pane.
And to see each of the bubbles has now
changed size to reflect the comparative
revenue.
One last thing I'd like
to do in this chart,
I'd actually like to color
code the bubbles by country.
So again, in my fields pain, I'm going
to come to customer, locate country.
And this time I'm just going to
put a tick in the box and
you'll see another way off
adding field to a visualization.
Let's create one more, and this time
what we want to do is a tree map.
Now you may recall trying to do tree
maps with pivot tables was a bit of
a challenge, but in Power BI,
it couldn't be easier.
Make sure you've clicked away from your
visualizations, so just click into canvas.
We're going to come back
to visualizations, and
in this selection of charts,
we're going to choose tree map, and
that's going to put an empty
tree map in for us.
I'm just going to move that down to
be next to my map, and for this one,
I would like to see a breakdown
of revenue by country.
So in my field list, I'm just going to
select country and revenue, really easy,
and you'll see because I'm using
sensible table names and measures.
I get sensible names for my visualization,
so I don't need to rename them,
which is great.
But here's the best part.
Come over to the United States block
in your tree map and click to select.
You'll notice it has now filtered our
map to show us only states in the US.
To clear the filter,
just click on United States again, and
we can even do it the other way around.
So if I come into my map and I click
on California, which is the big bubble,
it is now showing me the total amount
of revenue that came from California.
And again to clear it,
just click anywhere in your map.
So in just a few minutes,
we have imported, transformed, and
modeled our data, and created two
fantastic interactive visualizations.
We still have one table missing from our
data model, and that's the calendar table,
and that's what we're going to
look at in the next video.
But for now,
let's make sure we've saved our work.
So we're going to click our file tab.
We're going to click Save as.
You can navigate wherever you want to
save this file, and I'm going to call
it Sales Report 1, and you'll notice
it saves it with the extension PBIX.
Otherwise, it's just like any other file.
And we're now going the click
Save button and we're done.
[SOUND]